.\" Man page for regind(1)
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Regin contributors
.\"
.TH REGIND 1 "2025-06-17" "Regin" "Regin Manual"
.
.SH NAME
regind \- daemon for the Regin AI-powered server administration agent
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B regind
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B regind
is the daemon component of
.BR Regin ,
an AI-powered Linux server administration agent.
It runs as a long-lived background process, listening for requests from the
.BR regin (1)
CLI over a Unix domain socket using a newline-delimited JSON IPC protocol.
.PP
The daemon manages a SQLite database that stores settings, conversations,
memories, task run history, and scheduled tasks.
When a task is submitted,
.B regind
executes it using an LLM-powered agent that has access to a set of tools
including
.BR bash (1)
execution, file I/O, and web search.
.PP
Scheduled tasks are checked every 30 seconds and executed in the background
when their trigger time is reached.
.PP
Context is loaded from two optional files at startup and injected into the
LLM system prompt:
.RS
.TP
.I ~/.config/regin/context.md
User-level context available to all tasks.
.TP
.I .repo/regin/context.md
Repository-level context for project-specific knowledge.
.RE
.PP
Memories stored in the database are also loaded and provided as system
context to the LLM.
.PP
API settings for the NanoGPT backend are read from the SQLite database;
no external configuration files are required.
.
.SH USAGE
In most cases
.B regind
does not need to be started manually.
The
.BR regin (1)
CLI will start it automatically on first use if it is not already running.
.PP
To run the daemon explicitly:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ regind
.fi
.RE
.PP
No arguments are required.
.
.SS Systemd user service
The daemon can be installed as a
.BR systemd (1)
user service so that it starts at boot and survives logout:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ regin config set daemon.enabled true
.fi
.RE
.PP
This also enables
.B loginctl linger
for the invoking user, ensuring the service persists after the user
session ends.
.
.SH AGENT TOOLS
During task execution, the LLM agent has access to the following tools:
.TP
.B bash
Execute shell commands and return their output.
.TP
.B read_file
Read the contents of a file on disk.
.TP
.B write_file
Write content to a file, creating it if necessary.
.TP
.B edit_file
Make targeted edits to an existing file.
.TP
.B web_search
Search the web and return results.
.
.SH PROTOCOL
Communication between
.BR regin (1)
and
.B regind
uses newline-delimited JSON (JSON Lines) over a Unix domain socket.
Each line is a self-contained JSON object with a
.B type
field that identifies the message kind.
Messages are either
.I Request
objects (sent by the CLI) or
.I Response
objects (sent by the daemon).
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/regin/regind.sock
Unix domain socket for IPC.
Falls back to
.I ~/.local/state/regin/regind.sock
if
.B XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
is not set.
Removed on graceful shutdown.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/regin/regin.db
SQLite database storing settings, conversations, memories, task runs, and
scheduled tasks.
.TP
.I ~/.config/regin/context.md
Optional user-level context file loaded into the LLM system prompt.
.TP
.I .repo/regin/context.md
Optional repository-level context file loaded into the LLM system prompt.
.TP
.I /usr/share/regin/skills/
System-wide skill definitions.
.TP
.I ~/.config/regin/skills/
User-specific skill definitions.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
Base directory for the Unix socket.
If unset,
.I ~/.local/state/regin/
is used instead.
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Controls log verbosity.
Defaults to
.BR info .
See the
.B tracing-subscriber
EnvFilter documentation for the full syntax (e.g.,
.IR debug ,
.IR regind=trace ).
.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Graceful shutdown.
The daemon removes the socket file and exits.
.TP
.B SIGINT
Same as
.BR SIGTERM .
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Clean shutdown after receiving a signal.
.TP
.B >0
An error occurred during startup or operation.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR regin (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Regin contributors.
