.\" regin.1 — man page for regin(1)
.\"
.\" Copyright 2025 The Regin Authors
.\"
.TH REGIN 1 "2025-06-17" "regin" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
regin \- AI-powered Linux server administration agent
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B regin
.B chat
.br
.B regin
.B task
.I command
.RI [ args ]
.br
.B regin
.B runs
.RB [ \-\-skill
.IR NAME ]
.RB [ \-\-limit
.IR N ]
.br
.B regin
.B config
.I command
.RI [ args ]
.br
.B regin
.B memory
.I command
.RI [ args ]
.br
.B regin
.B ping
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B regin
is an LLM-backed agent for server monitoring, auditing, and operations.
It provides an interactive session with tool access (shell, file I/O,
web search) and a task system for scheduled and ad-hoc server
administration work.
.PP
Named after the dwarf smith from the V\(:olsunga saga.
.PP
The daemon
.RB ( regind )
starts automatically on first CLI use.
All configuration and state are stored in SQLite; no config files are
needed.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.
.SS Chat
.TP
.B regin chat
Start an interactive agent session.
The agent has access to the following tools:
.BR bash ,
.BR read_file ,
.BR write_file ,
.BR edit_file ,
and
.BR web_search .
Context is loaded from
.I ~/.config/regin/context.md
(global) and
.I .repo/regin/context.md
(repo-local).
.IP
Session commands available during chat:
.RS
.TP
.B /new
Start a new conversation.
.TP
.B /history
Show conversation history.
.TP
.B /quit
Exit the session.
.RE
.
.SS Tasks
.TP
.BI "regin task list"
List all tasks (system and user).
.TP
.BI "regin task show " name
Show the task prompt and supporting files for
.IR name .
.TP
.BI "regin task exec " "name " \fR[ schedule \fR]
Run the task
.I name
once.
If
.I schedule
is given, also schedule the task for repeated execution.
Valid schedule values are
.BR hourly ,
.BR daily ,
.BR weekly ,
.BR monthly ,
or a custom interval of the form
.BI every\ X m\fR/\fIX h\fR/\fIX d
(e.g.,
.BR "every 30m" ,
.BR "every 6h" ,
.BR "every 2d" ).
.TP
.BI "regin task unschedule " name
Remove the schedule for task
.IR name .
.TP
.B regin task schedules
List all active task schedules.
.
.SS Runs
.TP
.BR "regin runs" " [" \-\-skill \ \fINAME\fR] " [" \-\-limit \ \fIN\fR]
Show task run history.
Optionally filter by skill
.I NAME
or limit the output to
.I N
entries.
.
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B regin config list
List all settings and their current values.
.TP
.BI "regin config get " key
Get the value of a setting.
.TP
.BI "regin config set " "key value"
Set a configuration value.
Setting
.B daemon.enabled=true
installs a user systemd unit and runs
.BR "loginctl enable-linger" .
.
.SS Memory
.TP
.BR "regin memory list" " [" \-\-category \ \fICAT\fR]
List stored memories, optionally filtered by category
.IR CAT .
.TP
.BI "regin memory search " query
Search memories by
.IR query .
.TP
.BI "regin memory save " "category content"
Save a new memory.
Valid categories are:
.BR fact ,
.BR preference ,
.BR pattern ,
.BR project ,
.BR skill ,
.BR person .
.TP
.BI "regin memory update " "id content"
Update an existing memory identified by
.IR id .
.TP
.BI "regin memory delete " id
Delete the memory identified by
.IR id .
.
.SS Daemon
.TP
.B regin ping
Check whether the
.B regind
daemon is running and responsive.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-skill \ \fINAME
(\fBregin runs\fR)
Filter run history to the named skill.
.TP
.BR \-\-limit \ \fIN
(\fBregin runs\fR)
Limit run history output to
.I N
entries.
.TP
.BR \-\-category \ \fICAT
(\fBregin memory list\fR)
Filter memories by category.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The following settings are recognised by
.BR "regin config" :
.TP
.B nanogpt.api_key
API key for the NanoGPT backend.
Required.
.TP
.B nanogpt.model
LLM model to use.
Default:
.BR claude-sonnet-4-20250514 .
.TP
.B nanogpt.base_url
Base URL for the NanoGPT API endpoint.
.TP
.B daemon.enabled
When set to
.BR true ,
installs a user systemd service unit for
.B regind
and enables lingering via
.BR loginctl (1).
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/regin/regin.db
SQLite database containing all configuration and state.
.TP
.I $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/regin/regind.sock
Unix domain socket used for CLI-to-daemon communication.
.TP
.I ~/.config/regin/context.md
Global context file loaded at the start of every chat session.
.TP
.I .repo/regin/context.md
Repository-local context file, loaded when present.
.TP
.I /usr/share/regin/skills/
System skills shipped with the package.
.TP
.I ~/.config/regin/skills/
User-defined skills (override system skills of the same name).
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
Base directory for the daemon socket.
Typically set by
.BR systemd-logind (8).
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Controls log verbosity for both
.B regin
and
.BR regind .
See the
.B tracing-subscriber
EnvFilter documentation for syntax.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
Set up API access and start a chat session:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ regin config set nanogpt.api_key YOUR_KEY
$ regin chat
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run the
.B security-audit
task once:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ regin task exec security-audit
.fi
.RE
.PP
Schedule a task to run every six hours:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ regin task exec disk-check "every 6h"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Schedule a daily task:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ regin task exec log-summary daily
.fi
.RE
.PP
View recent task runs, limited to 5:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ regin runs --limit 5
.fi
.RE
.PP
Save a memory and search for it later:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ regin memory save fact "Production DB is on port 5432"
$ regin memory search "database port"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check daemon status:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ regin ping
.fi
.RE
.
.SH ARCHITECTURE
The
.B regin
CLI communicates with the
.B regind
daemon over a Unix domain socket.
The daemon is started automatically on first CLI invocation and manages
all agent sessions, scheduled tasks, and background operations.
All persistent state is kept in a single SQLite database.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR loginctl (1),
.BR systemd-logind (8),
.BR sqlite3 (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
The Regin Authors.
